So just project was realized as
part of our course of hardware
software platform of the master
in electrical engineering at the
Polytechnic faculty of months.
We realized this tutorial to
offer everyone the opportunity
to understand how we work and to
build it yourself.
The purpose of our project was
to realize this tutorial which
clean how to send data to a
servo motor using the Geo named
Sock Development Kit.
And it is what we will see
together during that this
tutorial we will first present
you the theoretical backgrounds
needed to understand the way it
works.
We will then present you the
main parts of the implementation
of this project, which are the
hardware and the software ports.
Then we will see how to connect
those different parts together.
Afterwards, we explained how we
realized the measurement by
showing you the setup
configuration and we will
finally show you the different
results we obtain.
So do the servo motor is a
peripheral which the British and
anger is ordered using a P2WM,
so A+ width modulation.
This means that the information
sent is carried by the length of
the pools received.
Transferring data with a PWM
consists in varying the duty
cycle off a fixed periodic
signal.
This means that the information
sent is carried by the length of
a push receipts, as the
beautician officer military can
go from zero degree to 180
degree.
The post linked to a rotation of
0 degree as a duration of 1
millisecond and the person
associated to rotation of 180 G
quick response to a duration of
two millisecond.
Other polls and all the possible
rotation and goes off the servo
motor is associated with a
certain post direction.
To order a several motor we have
to deal with two clocks.
The Servomotor can't received an
order every 20 minutes.
This is the clock of the first
of the rotation execution.
This corresponds to a pools that
will appear every 20 minutes.
Again, uh.
If we send an order every tree
medicine, this is the server
motor frequency or the
servomotor.
Uh.
Periods you can see on this
picture that the time during
which the simulator is on and
received information is the time
named T on so here.
When this time is over, the
servomotor turn off the next
time it will be a week again is
after a complete periods of
training millisecond.
So after dear when we will be
here as an angle of 0 degree
responsibles on one millisecond,
the 1st signal of the pulse
corresponds to the fact that the
servo motor is awake and the
additional times uh of the pools
is the.
Information of the rotation.
Therefore, we have to divide.
That seconds seconds of and the
pulse in.
180 different possible values to
have a skill of rotation
associated to a skill of time.
The duration of the Polls is
defined with the PWM value.
In the software parts, the
purpose is to generate the
binary.
The binary value of the rotation
want it as we cut it, the
information on 8 bits.
The rotation can take 256
different values.
The software gives the rotation
in the binary value coded on 8
speeds.
For example, a rotation of 0
degree would be a suit of eight
bits with the zero value.
The software's case, the
rotation and Guild in 256
values.
This information is then sent to
be hardware parts.
Its role is to translate this
binary information in time value
to have time values.
We can see we can use frequency
as the frequency corresponds to
the inverse of the time duration
of the books.
The 256 possible values have
attributed time values with one
and two Millicent between one
and two Michigan.
This range of time and can be a
range of frequency.
So we we use a range of
frequency as we can change in,
in the range of time with the
region between the period and
the frequency.
So we use the range of frequency
to modulate the time duration of
a pulse, and this range goes
from 08 to 50.
Uh, 50,000 Hertz.
This figure illustrates the
translation of the time domain
to a rotation domain with the
different roles of the hardware
and the software ports.
We will now take time to explain
you the software parts and the
different files we have used to
implement it.
The software plays the rule of
the interface between the human
and the machine.
It permits to enter a value of
angle and it converts it in an 8
bit value between 0 and 255.
For this Part 2 codes in C
concerned concerned is
concerned.
We used the two platform
designer to implement the
software files.
Q UH is the driver file the rule
of the software driver is to do
the conversion of the degree
value which correspond to the
last defined function entered by
the user in a 8 bit values.
So we transform an array of
degree values, two an array of 8
bit values which well, Christmas
to Enrico values of 022 hundred
505055.
It will also put the results of
the conversion in the outputs.
PIR Register the main fight
plays here.
The role of the interface
between the human and the
machine each permits to ask to
the user which angle needed for
the servo motor and send it to
the function defined in the
critical file.
It also asked to the user if he
wants to enter a new value or
not.
The art reports of our project
is the leader of the chosen
inputs and outputs.
The implementation part is
achieved with the tool platform
designer of courses.
If you're programming language
languages use in this program or
is the VHDL and programming. The
hardware part consists in
programming.
The HPG, A which is constitutes
of a wrapper and an output
tribe.
The outward is so in charge to
implement the test bench.
This has the purpose to simulate
the behavior of the servo motor
before we link it to the to the
software parts and the
processor.
It cannot success.
The input and the output to
check if the information sends
to the hardware part correspond
well to the information sent to
the periphery.
The odd where is partly
constituted by an output driver.
This elements of the hardware
platform links the hardware
parts to the software parts.
This the HTML codes describe the
working and the architecture of
the desire circuit FPGA to
easily develop it.
We find here in our driver,
which we find here, our driver
and it's defines our FPGA.
We have two main parts of the
code.
The first one is and the entity,
so here it had the rule to
define the external interface of
the FPGA, including a definition
of the inputs and the output
signals of it is, well, a, and
what she's there.
Uh, types.
We then find the architecture
here.
Uh, which implements and
describes the way of working on
the FPGA.
We have to associate it with the
inputs and the output signals.
It may have to deal with, so
This is why it is defined just
after the entity ports.
Here we see that in the
architecture we first define
those signal and link it with
the one we found in the entity.
Here you see the following code
of the hockey tecture.
Uh, the way the ticket the
circuit is working is defined by
a state Martian and it's
describes and and it is
described in the process part of
your architecture, a state
machine defined the output
signal.
Depending on the values of the
input signals, here we have
three states.
As you go S1 and S2 as you go
initiates is the initial states
of the FGR, and when you're at
the state as you a new servo
motor period starts and allows
to pass to the states as one in
the state S1.
So motor is awake.
We generated data pluses between
one millisecond and two
milliseconds, and depending on
the rotation angle, when the the
top pulls is finished.
So we said one, that's our pools
we passed to the States A2 to
finish the servo motor period.
So we send one data pulls uh by
periods of servo motor.
When the data pulls is ended, we
passed to the State X2 where we
wait the end of the actual
segment.
You people, as we have since
data during this period, we have
to wait the beginning of the
next server motor period.
Two uh, join again at the state
a zero and send a new data when
we reach join to state S1 after
the at the state S0.
The wrapper file acts as a
wrapper around the driver
module, which needs to be
instantiated.
It makes the link between the
driver and the top lever design.
We define in the file all the
necessary inputs and outputs.
In other words, we define the Pi
IO and the J I/O at the top of
the wrapper and the driver we
have the file named FPGA top .3
that's represents the top level
design of our FPGA projects.
This file will connect the
hardware module with the pins
and the signals.
This file is composed with the
inputs received from the
software and the outputs, which
are the and the output ports
which will controls these server
mode.
In the artwork part, we have to
finally realized a test.
Bench the role of it is to
generate the signal that should
coming from the software part in
the purpose of checking that the
hardware port work well.
The test bench allows us to see
the signal generated at the
output of the hardware and
compare it to the signals and
sending as it's inputs.
As for all VHDL files to create
the testbench, you have to write
it, change the project level
navigator on files.
So here.
Then you have to save it with
the same name as the name of the
entity.
UM, Anne's, uh.
You have to define that it is a
test batch.
So we click right with the mouse
on your file and select
properties.
Then you change the type of the
file by selecting VHDL testbench
file.
And to the Steve assimilation of
death bench, you have to start
the simulation, yeah.
Then, uh, you run this virtual
simulation?
Uh, that you can find on tools.
The Arthur L Simulation opens in
modern city is open, so the
eritel simulation is apparent
in, but there's sin and you have
them to click on.
Compile on the new window you
have to select your driver and
it's test bench here to see the
signals of it.
You'll finally have to click on
compile.
Uh, you stored this simulation?
Yeah.
Uh, select the test bench in the
starting legion window, so here.
The signal you want to observe
on you, so the signal you want
to observe you need.
So if you want to see some
signals, you need to select.
It's so where you will select
select it is here.
Sure.
Uh.
You see our simulation?
We simulated the data signals
the FPGA and serve model clocks
and the output input signals.
Umm that are that are generated
by the testbench.
Here we generated all the 255
possible rotation angles at the
inputs of our driver.
Umm, the test bench plays.
In fact, a bowl of the software
parts to check if our if the
hardware implementation works
well.
Here we measured the time
duration of the data pulses and
checked if it is it corresponds
to the data.
Uh, send it by the test batch.
This allows.
This allows us to confirm that
our implementation of the
artwork part is correct.
The next step of the tutorial is
to connect the software and the
artwork reports from now we have
to connect the hardware parts of
the car to the computer.
The hardware parts of the carts
is at the opposite of the
Internet connection.
When we configure the
programmer, we first have only
one ship that appear, which is
the one of the cards we have
connected.
We then have to import the our
FPGA program to connect it with
the cards.
We add the file name, FPGA point
stuff and we see a second ship
appearing on the window which
correspond to our FPGA.
When it is added, we can see the
progress of the computation.
When it reaches her 100%, we can
confirm that the connection
between the FG and the card is
completed.
Do you answer your view for
sure?
Is a tool that allows us to
check the connection between the
different elements of the hot
way.
We can see in what hands the
connection between the
components of our circuits and
the connections between our
circuits and the court
components.
We can also check the signals.
Uh, we find AD outputs and the
inputs of all the Nets.
The final task to realized
before seeing the final working
of our project is to configure
the setup.
Uh, this setup of the of the the
setup of the experimentation,
the card connection, so we have
to connect the cards and to ruin
our project.
In it, we have now to celebrate
our project in the car.
To do so, we connect the CARDS 2
ETHERNETS and IP address is done
assigned to it.
We then configure the putty
window with the correct com.
So here come eight the
connection type here is this the
serial connection and the speech
which is UH-100 fifteen 200.
When it is done, the party
connection window opens and we
can enter the IMF come think
comment so here to recover the
IP address of our cards so here.
The next step is to open the
sock ETS command.
Shell desk applications.
Did you can find on your but
desk of your computer which is
the application that will allow
us to commend the cards in this
winter.
We have to ensure the direction
the directory of our files with
the common city here, yeah.
Oh, OK, uh.
In this window.
Ohh then uh.
We used to come and make clean
so here.
Uh to delete the old files of
the card?
The common mates tillers, our
project in the card and we can
suddenly execute its with the
command SCP.
Uh, we finally come back to the
putty window to execute the
software program and have the
interface human machine.
In this window, we can now enter
different value of rotation
angle and observe the output
signals on the nauseous scope or
directly on this server motor
connecting to the cops.
So here we can now and finally
see the O final reasons Q.
You can see the.
Zero degree and go are reserving
water we observe on the
oscillator view that the
duration of the post is formally
seconds.
Which Christine?
Well, to the angle of 0 degree
we have entered entered in the
putty window here.
Umm, the picture on the right?
Is the position of the servo
motor for an Angular 0 degree.
In reality, it's not a real
anger of 0 degree that is
discrete comes to a smallest
position of the servo motor.
The value of 19 degree
corresponds to a division of a
one to five minutes seconds,
which is very fine.
On the oscilloscope view here
the position of the Super motor
is the Hulk of its possible
rotation, and this work can see
here on this picture.
Finally, we enter the value of
180 degree to observe the
maximum plus duration.
It's corresponds well to a
duration of two millisecond on
the oscilloscope, and here we
can see also the higher position
of the servo motor, which
correspond to a software command
of 180 degree.
And we finished this tutorial
with the Statesman.
That's we finally succeeded in
commanding a servo motor using a
software and a hardware platform
and origin.
Thanks you for the attention you
pay to our work and hopes that
all this work has LED you to
better understand why, if he
HTML can be used for and how to
master servo motor with ADEO
nano sock kits.